Introduction 
Redis is a distributed, in-memory key-value database, message broker, cache, and in-memory data structure store with optional durability. Strings, lists, maps, sets, sorted sets, HyperLogLogs, bitmaps, streams, and spatial indices are just a few of the abstract data structures that Redis can work with.

Ansible is a collection of software tools that let infrastructure be written in code. Software provisioning, configuration management, and application deployment are all included in the open-source suite.

Prerequisites
Up and running Ansible server.
Root access of target machine.
Internet connectivity with nodes.
We’ll show you how to use the Ansible automation tool to install the Redis server on a Ubuntu machine in this post.

Step 1: Creating Redis Playbook
We need to create a redis-playbook.yml, Ansible play is very import to to execute the task one by one.

To create a redis-playbook.yml

nano redis-playbook.yml
Paste the following code.

- name: Install Redis
  hosts: redisservers
  become: true
  
  tasks:
  - name: Update apt-get repo and cache
    apt: update_cache=yes force_apt_get=yes cache_valid_time=3600  
  
  - name: Install Redis
    apt:
      name: redis-server
      state: present
  
  - name: Start Redis
    service:
      name: redis-server
      state: started
      enabled: yes
Save and exit from the text editor, This playbook does the following:

Adds the Redis repository to the remote server.
Installs Redis.
Starts the Redis service and enables it to start automatically on boot.
Note that this is just one example, and the specific details of your playbook will depend on your use case and the specific version of Redis you’re using.

Step 2: Execute Redis Playbook
We are good to execute the redis-playbook.yml by following the given command.

ansible-playbook redis-playbook.yml

The above command start the installation of redis server on target machine.

Step 3: Testing Redis 
Once the Redis installation on ubuntu uisng Ansible we need to execute redis-cli in order to take redis shell and then use ping command to get healthy response.

To login redis.

redis-cli
To get healthy status.

ping
